# Gambling-Detection-using-OpenCV
Gambling activities along with cash bets has led to a variety of social issues such as crime, corruption and money laundering. Hence, a ban was imposed on betting and gambling activities in India. With the improvement of global economy and spending power of the citizens, there has been a surge in cash bets placed in betting and gambling. Gambling being an addictive activity and capable of causing numerous physical, health, financial and social problems, it is important to keep a tab on gambling and eradicate its existence.
Keeping this in mind, we have come up with the project of Gambling Detection which uses object detection using OpenCV which is a huge open-source library used for computer vision, machine learning and image processing. This is used to detect currency notes and playing cards on the table to classify if there is a scenario of gambling and report the same. This project will be implemented on a raspberry pi which is a small single board computer which can be inserted in secret spy tools or pen cameras providing automatic detection without human intervention. The raspberry pi will be connected with a camera for real time video data to process and recognise money and playing cards.
Upon successful identification, the concerned authorities can take charge of the situation and punish the guilty. This can be further integrated to many CCTV cameras and video capturing devices to offer plethora of options to ensure guaranteed detection and assured success of this idea.
